Which mechanism allows multiple threads to safely access shared data without corrupting it in C++ programs?
std::chrono
std::thread::detach
std::mutex
std::thread::join

What is the primary purpose of utilizing condition variables in a multithreaded application?
To allow threads to wait for a specific condition or state to be true
To increase the number of threads a CPU can handle simultaneously
To automatically terminate threads when they become idle
To avoid needing any locks when accessing shared data

Which of the following scenarios could lead to a deadlock in C++ multithreaded applications?
When most threads are waiting for CPU resources
When a program exhausts memory resources
When two threads lock two resources in an opposite order of acquisition
When a single thread accesses a shared resource without locking

How can race conditions be effectively prevented in a multithreaded C++ application?
Use std::chrono to delay thread execution
Use std::thread::detach to ensure threads don’t interact directly
Increase the number of threads to handle data simultaneously
Implement std::mutex to synchronize access to shared resources

You are developing a thread-safe banking application where multiple threads may attempt to withdraw or deposit money from the same account at the same time.
Explain how you would use mutexes, locks, or condition variables to ensure the account balance remains accurate.
Describe at least one technique for preventing deadlock when multiple resources are involved.
Discuss how you would design the account class to ensure it is thread-safe, while still maintaining good performance.
Finally, explain the difference between a situation that requires synchronization and one that does not require synchronization in this context.

In a thread-safe banking application, the main goal is to ensure that multiple threads can access the same account without causing inconsistent or incorrect balances.

1. Using mutexes, locks, and condition variables

The account balance is shared data, so every operation that reads or modifies it, such as deposit or withdraw, must be protected by a mutex.

A mutex guarantees that only one thread at a time can execute the critical section. The simplest way to achieve this is by using std::lock_guard, which automatically locks the mutex when it is created and unlocks it when it goes out of scope.

Example:

class Account {
private:
    double balance;
    mutable std::mutex mtx;

public:
    void deposit(double amount) {
        std::lock_guard<std::mutex> lock(mtx);
        balance += amount;
    }

    bool withdraw(double amount) {
        std::lock_guard<std::mutex> lock(mtx);

        if (balance >= amount) {
            balance -= amount;
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
};

If a withdrawal should wait until sufficient funds become available instead of failing immediately, a std::condition_variable can be used.

The withdrawing thread waits until the balance is large enough:

    cv.wait(lock, [&] { return balance >= amount; });

Whenever a deposit increases the balance, it calls:

    cv.notify_one();

This wakes one waiting thread, which checks the condition again before continuing.

------------------------------------------------------------

2. Preventing deadlock

Deadlocks can occur when multiple threads attempt to lock multiple resources in different orders.

For example:

- Thread A locks Account 1 and then waits for Account 2.
- Thread B locks Account 2 and then waits for Account 1.

Neither thread can continue.

One common technique to prevent deadlocks is to always acquire locks in the same order, for example by locking accounts according to their account number.

An even better solution in modern C++ is to use std::scoped_lock:

    std::scoped_lock lock(account1.mtx, account2.mtx);

std::scoped_lock locks both mutexes using a deadlock-avoidance algorithm provided by the C++ Standard Library.

------------------------------------------------------------

3. Designing a thread-safe Account class

A thread-safe Account class should encapsulate both its data and its synchronization mechanism.

Some important design principles are:

- Keep the account balance private.
- Protect every modification with a mutex.
- Keep critical sections as short as possible.
- Never expose the mutex to external code.
- Avoid holding a lock while performing slow operations such as file I/O or network communication.

For operations involving two accounts, such as transfers, both mutexes should be locked simultaneously using std::scoped_lock to guarantee consistency and avoid deadlocks.

This design ensures correctness while minimizing lock contention and maintaining good performance.

------------------------------------------------------------

4. Operations that require synchronization versus those that do not

Synchronization is required whenever multiple threads access shared data and at least one thread modifies that data.

Examples that require synchronization include:

- Depositing money.
- Withdrawing money.
- Transferring money between accounts.
- Updating the transaction history.

Without synchronization, two or more threads could modify the balance simultaneously, producing race conditions and an incorrect account balance.

Operations that do not require synchronization are those that use only thread-local data or immutable data.

Examples include:

- Calculating interest using a local copy of the balance.
- Formatting a bank statement stored entirely in local variables.
- Performing computations that do not access shared account data.

In general, synchronization is only necessary when shared mutable state is accessed concurrently. Avoiding unnecessary locking improves performance by reducing contention between threads.